# Requirements for Artifact Description

The artifact’s documentation should include the following:

* A list of claims from the paper supported by the artifact, and how/why.
* A list of claims from the paper not supported by the artifact, and how/why.

Example: Performance claims cannot be reproduced in VM, authors are
not allowed to redistribute specific benchmarks, etc. Artifact
reviewers can then center their reviews / evaluation around these
specific claims.

## Getting Started Guide

The Getting Started Guide should contain setup instructions
(including, for example, a pointer to the VM player software, its
version, passwords if needed, etc.) and basic testing of your artifact
that you expect a reviewer to be able to complete in 30
minutes. Reviewers will follow all the steps in the guide during an
initial kick-the-tires phase. The Getting Started Guide should be as
simple as possible, and yet it should stress the key elements of your
artifact. Anyone who has followed the Getting Started Guide should
have no technical difficulties with the rest of your artifact.

Where appropriate, include descriptions of and links to files
(included in the archive) that represent expected outputs (e.g., the
log files expected to be generated by your tool on the given inputs);
if there are warnings that are safe to be ignored, explain which ones
they are.

## Step-by-Step Instructions

Step-by-Step Instructions for how you propose to evaluate your
artifact (with appropriate connections to the relevant sections of
your paper);

The Step by Step Instructions explain how to reproduce any experiments
or other activities that support the conclusions in your paper. Write
this for readers who have a deep interest in your work and are
studying it to improve it or compare against it. If your artifact runs
for more than a few minutes, point this out and explain how to run it
on smaller inputs.

Where appropriate, include descriptions of and links to files
(included in the archive) that represent expected outputs (e.g., the
log files expected to be generated by your tool on the given inputs);
if there are warnings that are safe to be ignored, explain which ones
they are.
